video games are really only just the  emulation of real life right  [Applause]  video games are derived in real life  especially these games that are like  mmorpgs that just require you to  continue to invest more and more time  doing mundane tasks tasks that you know  sometimes can be a little bit  challenging but overall video games are  a lot easier in real life right  but you're still  using  your mental energy right you're still  investing time and effort into  achieving the next level the next  milestone right completing the quest  whatever it may be  and then at the end of the day you feel  exhausted you feel tired you feel you  feel like you know you've done a lot  and over time when you make this a  regular habit when you're spending hours  and hours on every day  putting all of this mental energy into  these games you realize that nothing is  changing in your real life nothing's  changing your reality i want to give you  a bit of a back story so i started  gaming around the age of five years old  was playing consoles such as the nez and  snares and then later on it was things  such as the n64 dreamcast playstation  one xbox and then when the high speed  internet came around gaming online with  different mmo rpgs  leading up to about the age of 10 years  old i did game quite often but it wasn't  as bad as it got after the age of nine  years old so i got heavily  in to so many different shoot em up  games and i just couldn't get enough of  them and it got really really bad down  the line it got to the point where i got  into a game known as a world of warcraft  and when i got in to this game i never  wanted to get off it i just completely  stopped doing everything else in my life  i stopped socializing with all my  friends completely and i was just solely  focused on this game it literally became  my  world when i'd actually go and have to  eat food i'd eat as quickly as possible  so i could get back to gaming you're  putting all this energy into this  virtual reality but your  actual reality isn't changing and i feel  like a lot of people who get stuck on  these things and get so invested is  because  in virtual reality they have some sense  of power right they have some sense of  of prestige  of achievement of success but in their  actual life majority of the time  they're not successful right they don't  have any power they don't have anything  that they look forward to in their  reality this is why it's so addicting  for them to just run to games  because they feel like they have a  better life in this virtual world i grew  up gaming  i  had a  and  my parents treated me we had an n64 when  i was like six seven  that was cool i had some computer games  it was always like you have to come home  and you have to  uh do your schoolwork first and then you  can play and then you have to be off by  nine pm or some [ __ ] like that so my  parents did a good job  they did a cool job with that one summer  where i binged and this is an  interesting summer  played magic online like nine hours a  day for a summer with my brother now it  wasn't very fun even though it felt fun  at the time so i would literally game  every hour that i possibly could around  the clock wake up the next day and do it  again and again and again when i'd get  bored of a certain character i'd create  another one start with it from the  beginning it was just like going going  going going going if i look back on it  why  did i get a gaming addiction well one  my parents from a young age and other  people  just allowed me to play games and they  weren't aware of why it's not a good  thing but also  my family life was not very good there's  a lot of ups and downs there's many  times for years and years and years that  i was depressed i wasn't necessarily  happy with myself and my life and what  was going on in my whole human  experience so it had pretty much become  a crutch and something to switch off  from the outside reality most of the  time when  you're addicted to these virtual worlds  it's because you don't like the world  that you live in right  and i feel like all of that just ties  down to you not taking responsibility  for yourself as you could have guessed  it from the title and the thumbnail of  this video i am no longer going to be  streaming video games on twitch a lot of  things in my life have happened where i  honestly need to be out and active and  be there for my family  to help them and and support them not  only that but like my own mental health  and my own physical health have been  kind of deteriorating just over these  past few months  getting back into gaming i took a break  for a while and i had a really good job  and things were really good i had  friends in real life  and honestly  like i felt healthier than ever i was  working out eating right uh sleeping  well and doing things  you know as they in my opinion should be  and when i came back to streaming on  twitch for my me and my personal health  me and my family's health like it's it's  the right decision honestly it's been  forever since i've gone outside and even  like talked to somebody not really but  you know what i mean like it's gonna  take some time to get used to if you can  invest  all of this time into these games or to  scrolling on social media or to  you know  whatever it is that it may be that's not  actually changing your life for the  better in a positive way  then how can you make excuse that you  don't have time  this is the reason why i quit games  because  they take they're designed for you to  spend time  so much time on it in this virtual world  and you get this false sense of  achievement you get this false sense of  success when really nothing is changing  in your life and the world of gaming is  just way worse than when i used to game  because when i used the game there  wasn't smartphones everywhere they  didn't exist like when i go to the gym  there's people that are on cardio  machines that are just gaming the whole  time they're being a dopamine addict as  they're meant to be doing something  that's really really good for them and  man i'm telling you if i had this when i  was younger like oh i would have  literally never stopped gaming  whatsoever i've never had a break from  it if you're not  monetizing it somehow i think it's  pointless if you are not monetizing  games somehow it's pointless right  and i know if i had been around now when  i used to be into gaming i'd have been  like wow they're making really really  good money from it because people like  pewdiepie and other big  gaming youtube channels such as ninja  which there is so many out there now  they make so much money so for someone  like myself if i'd done that and built a  successful youtube channel that was with  gaming and then i'm getting a lot of  attention and a lot of people loving me  and just saying loads of nice things  which obviously you also get negative  feedback as well and then i'm making a  lot of money at the time from it  consistently so i can have whatever i  want and do whatever i want at such a  young age the likelihood of me just  getting fully sucked into that world and  never wanting to get out of it would  have been very very highly likely right  because for me  video games  really pulled me in  when i didn't feel good about myself  and i wanted something to make me feel  good immediately i'm sorry but video  games suck they're just not the point of  life they're a nice distraction here and  there  but to just spend life staring into a  screen think about what you really want  in life and is it to play video games in  computer games  that's why i quit but yeah guys i hope  you guys support me in this decision i  think a lot of people  you know find comfort in playing video  games every day and it kind of just like  uh separates you from what's going on in  the world with you know what's happening  in ukraine and and with russia i haven't  spoke about it too much but my heart  really goes out to all the people in  ukraine uh and all the people in russia  who don't want to be a part  of  you know the war that's going on because  those people are just like me and you  they just want to live their lives and  um  sometimes it's easier to just stay at a  computer all the time and not worry  about the world but that's not real the  real life you know i mean like that's  just lying to yourself  [Music]  i think that most people  without really being taught or trained  feel afraid  to be around drug dealers  to be around the illegal drug industry  if you like  to have a sense of  innate caution  being so close to something  that could take their life away  and you know the chances you're actually  going to wind up dead  not that terrifying but there's a  broader sense in which  getting involved with the drug game  could  take many years  of your life away  and  both men and women  i think feel a similar sense of creeping  terror  being in any way close to  illegal prostitution  even if they're left-wing  even if they say  sex work is work to actually be in that  way or actually be in that brothel or be  surrounded by  you know pimps and players  a certain kind of fear  and some people  are afraid of  it  not because they're afraid of being a  victim of it  but because they're afraid of their own  desires  and where that's going to take them  some people are afraid  because they're aware that  if they let their desires get the best  of them  they could lose years of their life  that way  i don't think people have  this kind of  instinctual  caution  when it comes to video games  but we should  i watched a whole bunch of youtube  videos lately about the 3ds that's the  video game system you see in the  background 2ds 3ds it's a nintendo  set of consoles  console line is shutting down the shop  that sells the games is closing down not  worth explaining there are all these  videos that just came up last week or  two  from these guys reflecting on  the games they played on this system in  the last 10 years of their lives making  recommendations for what you should buy  before it gets shut down  and just the way these guys listed off  the names of video games the titles that  they played from beginning to end and  sometimes adding in  that they went back five years later and  played it again and you can google  around and like each one of these titles  is 40 hours  60 hours  just recognizing whether it's  a 40 year old man  talking about the last 10 years of his  life going from age 30 to age 40 with  this console  or it's a 20 year old man who's talking  about going from the transition from  childhood  to adulthood you know  you should feel afraid  you should feel concerned  in the same sense that being involved in  the drug game or being involved in the  pimping game  it's not that your life is on the line  in the same sense as going into a war  zone or a battlefield  but man you're risking the quality and  the quantity and the meaning of your  life  in a much more insidious way  just a couple of days ago  i had a voice call with a man  about 60 years old  and i'm gonna be honest to you the only  reason i gave him the time to talk to  him  is that he was about 60  not that many of the viewers who get in  touch with me or of that age group  thought he might have something  interesting to say  but it was just as frustrating and just  as pointless as talking to a very  immature teenager  a reminder that getting older and  getting wiser are two completely  different things  i said this guy directly at one point  look  you're in your 60s  i'm in my 40s  i want to talk about what you're going  to do in the next five years of your  life  and i'm only really interested  in talking to people  who are going to make something happen  in the next five years people who have  ambitions  to change the world  to accomplish something great in the  next five years i want to hear  what it is you're gonna do in the next  five years and then we can talk about  what you've done in the last five years  and basically why you didn't make it  happen already i want to talk to people  who are ambitious  and man you know  if that ain't you  this conversation is not gonna happen  at all  i was polite  i was too polite  i'm making it my new year's resolution  to be a lot less polite the next time  that happened because apparently i was  so polite  that he completely ignored it he  completely missed the point  of what it was that i was saying to him  so directly having great ambitions  doesn't guarantee that you're ever going  to have any great accomplishments  but you can try  and you can  fail and out of that failure  even if it is only  failure that you ever encounter in the  pursuit of those ambitions  you're gonna become a better person  than you ever would be  sitting around and pressing  those buttons  [Music]